docs/content/primary-key-table/merge-engine/aggregation.md, before:

---
title: "Aggregation"
weight: 3
type: docs
aliases:
- /cdc-ingestion/merge-engin/aggregation.html
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Aggregation

{{< hint info >}}
NOTE: Always set `table.exec.sink.upsert-materialize` to `NONE` in Flink SQL TableConfig.
{{< /hint >}}

Sometimes users only care about aggregated results. The `aggregation` merge engine aggregates each value field with the latest data one by one under the same primary key according to the aggregate function.

Each field not part of the primary keys can be given an aggregate function, specified by the `fields.<field-name>.aggregate-function` table property, otherwise it will use `last_non_null_value` aggregation as default. For example, consider the following table definition.

{{< tabs "aggregation-merge-engine-example" >}}

{{< tab "Flink" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE my_table (
    product_id BIGINT,
    price DOUBLE,
    sales BIGINT,
    PRIMARY KEY (product_id) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
    'merge-engine' = 'aggregation',
    'fields.price.aggregate-function' = 'max',
    'fields.sales.aggregate-function' = 'sum'
);
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Field `price` will be aggregated by the `max` function, and field `sales` will be aggregated by the `sum` function. Given two input records `<1, 23.0, 15>` and `<1, 30.2, 20>`, the final result will be `<1, 30.2, 35>`.

## Aggregation Functions

Current supported aggregate functions and data types are:

### sum

  The sum function aggregates the values across multiple rows.
  It supports DECIMAL, TINYINT, SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT, FLOAT, and DOUBLE data types.

### product
  The product function can compute product values across multiple lines.
  It supports DECIMAL, TINYINT, SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT, FLOAT, and DOUBLE data types.

### count
  The count function counts the values across multiple rows.
  It supports INTEGER, BIGINT data types.

### max
  The max function identifies and retains the maximum value.
  It supports CHAR, VARCHAR, DECIMAL, TINYINT, SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT, FLOAT, DOUBLE, DATE, TIME, TIMESTAMP, and TIMESTAMP_LTZ data types.

### min
  The min function identifies and retains the minimum value.
  It supports CHAR, VARCHAR, DECIMAL, TINYINT, SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT, FLOAT, DOUBLE, DATE, TIME, TIMESTAMP, and TIMESTAMP_LTZ data types.

### last_value
  The last_value function replaces the previous value with the most recently imported value.
  It supports all data types.

### last_non_null_value
  The last_non_null_value function replaces the previous value with the latest non-null value.
  It supports all data types.

### listagg
  The listagg function concatenates multiple string values into a single string.
  It supports STRING data type.

### bool_and
  The bool_and function evaluates whether all values in a boolean set are true.
  It supports BOOLEAN data type.

### bool_or
  The bool_or function checks if at least one value in a boolean set is true.
  It supports BOOLEAN data type.

### first_value
  The first_value function retrieves the first null value from a data set.
  It supports all data types.

### first_non_null_value
  The first_non_null_value function selects the first non-null value in a data set.
  It supports all data types.

### rbm32
  The rbm32 function aggregates multiple serialized 32-bit RoaringBitmap into a single RoaringBitmap.
  It supports VARBINARY data type.

### rbm64
  The rbm64 function aggregates multiple serialized 64-bit Roaring64Bitmap into a single Roaring64Bitmap.
  It supports VARBINARY data type.

### nested_update
  The nested_update function collects multiple rows into one array<row> (so-called 'nested table'). It supports ARRAY<ROW> data types.

  Use `fields.<field-name>.nested-key=pk0,pk1,...` to specify the primary keys of the nested table. If no keys, row will be appended to array<row>.

  An example:

  {{< tabs "nested_update-example" >}}

  {{< tab "Flink" >}}

  ```sql
  -- orders table
  CREATE TABLE orders (
    order_id BIGINT PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    user_name STRING,
    address STRING
  );
  
  -- sub orders that have the same order_id 
  -- belongs to the same order
  CREATE TABLE sub_orders (
    order_id BIGINT,
    sub_order_id INT,
    product_name STRING,
    price BIGINT,
    PRIMARY KEY (order_id, sub_order_id) NOT ENFORCED
  );
  
  -- wide table
  CREATE TABLE order_wide (
    order_id BIGINT PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    user_name STRING,
    address STRING,
    sub_orders ARRAY<ROW<sub_order_id BIGINT, product_name STRING, price BIGINT>>
  ) WITH (
    'merge-engine' = 'aggregation',
    'fields.sub_orders.aggregate-function' = 'nested_update',
    'fields.sub_orders.nested-key' = 'sub_order_id'
  );
  
  -- widen
  INSERT INTO order_wide
  
  SELECT 
    order_id, 
    user_name,
    address, 
    CAST (NULL AS ARRAY<ROW<sub_order_id BIGINT, product_name STRING, price BIGINT>>) 
  FROM orders
  
  UNION ALL 
    
  SELECT 
    order_id, 
    CAST (NULL AS STRING), 
    CAST (NULL AS STRING), 
    ARRAY[ROW(sub_order_id, product_name, price)] 
  FROM sub_orders;
  
  -- query using UNNEST
  SELECT order_id, user_name, address, sub_order_id, product_name, price 
  FROM order_wide, UNNEST(sub_orders) AS so(sub_order_id, product_name, price)
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}

  {{< /tabs >}}

### collect
  The collect function collects elements into an Array. You can set `fields.<field-name>.distinct=true` to deduplicate elements.
  It only supports ARRAY type.

### merge_map
  The merge_map function merge input maps. It only supports MAP type.

### theta_sketch
  The theta_sketch function aggregates multiple serialized Sketch objects into a single Sketch.
  It supports VARBINARY data type.

  An example:

  {{< tabs "nested_update-example" >}}

  {{< tab "Flink" >}}

  ```sql
  -- source table
  CREATE TABLE VISITS (
    id INT PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    user_id STRING
  );
  
  -- agg table
  CREATE TABLE UV_AGG (
    id INT PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    uv VARBINARY
  ) WITH (
    'merge-engine' = 'aggregation',
    'fields.f0.aggregate-function' = 'theta_sketch'
  );
  
  -- Register the following class as a Flink function with the name "SKETCH" 
  -- which is used to transform input to sketch bytes array:
  --
  -- public static class SketchFunction extends ScalarFunction {
  --   public byte[] eval(String user_id) {
  --     UpdateSketch updateSketch = UpdateSketch.builder().build();
  --     updateSketch.update(user_id);
  --     return updateSketch.compact().toByteArray();
  --   }
  -- }
  --
  INSERT INTO UV_AGG SELECT id, SKETCH(user_id) FROM VISITS;

  -- Register the following class as a Flink function with the name "SKETCH_COUNT"
  -- which is used to get cardinality from sketch bytes array:
  -- 
  -- public static class SketchCountFunction extends ScalarFunction { 
  --   public Double eval(byte[] sketchBytes) {
  --     if (sketchBytes == null) {
  --       return 0d; 
  --     } 
  --     return Sketches.wrapCompactSketch(Memory.wrap(sketchBytes)).getEstimate(); 
  --   } 
  -- }
  --
  -- Then we can get user cardinality based on the aggregated field.
  SELECT id, SKETCH_COUNT(UV) as uv FROM UV_AGG;
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}

  {{< /tabs >}}

{{< hint info >}}
For streaming queries, `aggregation` merge engine must be used together with `lookup` or `full-compaction`
[changelog producer]({{< ref "primary-key-table/changelog-producer" >}}). ('input' changelog producer is also supported, but only returns input records.)
{{< /hint >}}

## Retraction

Only `sum`, `product`, `count`, `collect`, `merge_map`, `nested_update`, `last_value` and `last_non_null_value` supports retraction (`UPDATE_BEFORE` and `DELETE`), others aggregate functions do not support retraction.
If you allow some functions to ignore retraction messages, you can configure:
`'fields.${field_name}.ignore-retract'='true'`.

The `last_value` and `last_non_null_value` just set field to null when accept retract messages.

The `collect` and `merge_map` make a best-effort attempt to handle retraction messages, but the results are not
guaranteed to be accurate. The following behaviors may occur when processing retraction messages:

1. It might fail to handle retraction messages if records are disordered. For example, the table uses `collect`, and the
   upstreams send `+I['A', 'B']` and `-U['A']` respectively. If the table receives `-U['A']` first, it can do nothing; then it receives
   `+I['A', 'B']`, the merge result will be `+I['A', 'B']` instead of `+I['B']`.

2. The retract message from one upstream will retract the result merged from multiple upstreams. For example, the table
   uses `merge_map`, and one upstream sends `+I[1->A]`, another upstream sends `+I[1->B]`, `-D[1->B]` later. The table will
   merge two insert values to `+I[1->B]` first, and then the `-D[1->B]` will retract the whole result, so the final result
   is an empty map instead of `+I[1->A]`

Commit message:

[core] support user define delimiter with list agg (#3930)

docs/content/primary-key-table/merge-engine/aggregation.md, after:

---
title: "Aggregation"
weight: 3
type: docs
aliases:
- /cdc-ingestion/merge-engin/aggregation.html
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Aggregation

{{< hint info >}}
NOTE: Always set `table.exec.sink.upsert-materialize` to `NONE` in Flink SQL TableConfig.
{{< /hint >}}

Sometimes users only care about aggregated results. The `aggregation` merge engine aggregates each value field with the latest data one by one under the same primary key according to the aggregate function.

Each field not part of the primary keys can be given an aggregate function, specified by the `fields.<field-name>.aggregate-function` table property, otherwise it will use `last_non_null_value` aggregation as default. For example, consider the following table definition.

{{< tabs "aggregation-merge-engine-example" >}}

{{< tab "Flink" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE my_table (
    product_id BIGINT,
    price DOUBLE,
    sales BIGINT,
    PRIMARY KEY (product_id) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
    'merge-engine' = 'aggregation',
    'fields.price.aggregate-function' = 'max',
    'fields.sales.aggregate-function' = 'sum'
);
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Field `price` will be aggregated by the `max` function, and field `sales` will be aggregated by the `sum` function. Given two input records `<1, 23.0, 15>` and `<1, 30.2, 20>`, the final result will be `<1, 30.2, 35>`.

## Aggregation Functions

Current supported aggregate functions and data types are:

### sum

  The sum function aggregates the values across multiple rows.
  It supports DECIMAL, TINYINT, SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT, FLOAT, and DOUBLE data types.

### product
  The product function can compute product values across multiple lines.
  It supports DECIMAL, TINYINT, SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT, FLOAT, and DOUBLE data types.

### count
  The count function counts the values across multiple rows.
  It supports INTEGER, BIGINT data types.

### max
  The max function identifies and retains the maximum value.
  It supports CHAR, VARCHAR, DECIMAL, TINYINT, SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT, FLOAT, DOUBLE, DATE, TIME, TIMESTAMP, and TIMESTAMP_LTZ data types.

### min
  The min function identifies and retains the minimum value.
  It supports CHAR, VARCHAR, DECIMAL, TINYINT, SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT, FLOAT, DOUBLE, DATE, TIME, TIMESTAMP, and TIMESTAMP_LTZ data types.

### last_value
  The last_value function replaces the previous value with the most recently imported value.
  It supports all data types.

### last_non_null_value
  The last_non_null_value function replaces the previous value with the latest non-null value.
  It supports all data types.

### listagg
  The listagg function concatenates multiple string values into a single string.
  It supports STRING data type.
  Each field not part of the primary keys can be given a list agg delimiter, specified by the fields.<field-name>.list-agg-delimiter table property, otherwise it will use "," as default.

### bool_and
  The bool_and function evaluates whether all values in a boolean set are true.
  It supports BOOLEAN data type.

### bool_or
  The bool_or function checks if at least one value in a boolean set is true.
  It supports BOOLEAN data type.

### first_value
  The first_value function retrieves the first null value from a data set.
  It supports all data types.

### first_non_null_value
  The first_non_null_value function selects the first non-null value in a data set.
  It supports all data types.

### rbm32
  The rbm32 function aggregates multiple serialized 32-bit RoaringBitmap into a single RoaringBitmap.
  It supports VARBINARY data type.

### rbm64
  The rbm64 function aggregates multiple serialized 64-bit Roaring64Bitmap into a single Roaring64Bitmap.
  It supports VARBINARY data type.

### nested_update
  The nested_update function collects multiple rows into one array<row> (so-called 'nested table'). It supports ARRAY<ROW> data types.

  Use `fields.<field-name>.nested-key=pk0,pk1,...` to specify the primary keys of the nested table. If no keys, row will be appended to array<row>.

  An example:

  {{< tabs "nested_update-example" >}}

  {{< tab "Flink" >}}

  ```sql
  -- orders table
  CREATE TABLE orders (
    order_id BIGINT PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    user_name STRING,
    address STRING
  );
  
  -- sub orders that have the same order_id 
  -- belongs to the same order
  CREATE TABLE sub_orders (
    order_id BIGINT,
    sub_order_id INT,
    product_name STRING,
    price BIGINT,
    PRIMARY KEY (order_id, sub_order_id) NOT ENFORCED
  );
  
  -- wide table
  CREATE TABLE order_wide (
    order_id BIGINT PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    user_name STRING,
    address STRING,
    sub_orders ARRAY<ROW<sub_order_id BIGINT, product_name STRING, price BIGINT>>
  ) WITH (
    'merge-engine' = 'aggregation',
    'fields.sub_orders.aggregate-function' = 'nested_update',
    'fields.sub_orders.nested-key' = 'sub_order_id'
  );
  
  -- widen
  INSERT INTO order_wide
  
  SELECT 
    order_id, 
    user_name,
    address, 
    CAST (NULL AS ARRAY<ROW<sub_order_id BIGINT, product_name STRING, price BIGINT>>) 
  FROM orders
  
  UNION ALL 
    
  SELECT 
    order_id, 
    CAST (NULL AS STRING), 
    CAST (NULL AS STRING), 
    ARRAY[ROW(sub_order_id, product_name, price)] 
  FROM sub_orders;
  
  -- query using UNNEST
  SELECT order_id, user_name, address, sub_order_id, product_name, price 
  FROM order_wide, UNNEST(sub_orders) AS so(sub_order_id, product_name, price)
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}

  {{< /tabs >}}

### collect
  The collect function collects elements into an Array. You can set `fields.<field-name>.distinct=true` to deduplicate elements.
  It only supports ARRAY type.

### merge_map
  The merge_map function merge input maps. It only supports MAP type.

### theta_sketch
  The theta_sketch function aggregates multiple serialized Sketch objects into a single Sketch.
  It supports VARBINARY data type.

  An example:

  {{< tabs "nested_update-example" >}}

  {{< tab "Flink" >}}

  ```sql
  -- source table
  CREATE TABLE VISITS (
    id INT PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    user_id STRING
  );
  
  -- agg table
  CREATE TABLE UV_AGG (
    id INT PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
    uv VARBINARY
  ) WITH (
    'merge-engine' = 'aggregation',
    'fields.f0.aggregate-function' = 'theta_sketch'
  );
  
  -- Register the following class as a Flink function with the name "SKETCH" 
  -- which is used to transform input to sketch bytes array:
  --
  -- public static class SketchFunction extends ScalarFunction {
  --   public byte[] eval(String user_id) {
  --     UpdateSketch updateSketch = UpdateSketch.builder().build();
  --     updateSketch.update(user_id);
  --     return updateSketch.compact().toByteArray();
  --   }
  -- }
  --
  INSERT INTO UV_AGG SELECT id, SKETCH(user_id) FROM VISITS;

  -- Register the following class as a Flink function with the name "SKETCH_COUNT"
  -- which is used to get cardinality from sketch bytes array:
  -- 
  -- public static class SketchCountFunction extends ScalarFunction { 
  --   public Double eval(byte[] sketchBytes) {
  --     if (sketchBytes == null) {
  --       return 0d; 
  --     } 
  --     return Sketches.wrapCompactSketch(Memory.wrap(sketchBytes)).getEstimate(); 
  --   } 
  -- }
  --
  -- Then we can get user cardinality based on the aggregated field.
  SELECT id, SKETCH_COUNT(UV) as uv FROM UV_AGG;
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}

  {{< /tabs >}}

{{< hint info >}}
For streaming queries, `aggregation` merge engine must be used together with `lookup` or `full-compaction`
[changelog producer]({{< ref "primary-key-table/changelog-producer" >}}). ('input' changelog producer is also supported, but only returns input records.)
{{< /hint >}}

## Retraction

Only `sum`, `product`, `count`, `collect`, `merge_map`, `nested_update`, `last_value` and `last_non_null_value` supports retraction (`UPDATE_BEFORE` and `DELETE`), others aggregate functions do not support retraction.
If you allow some functions to ignore retraction messages, you can configure:
`'fields.${field_name}.ignore-retract'='true'`.

The `last_value` and `last_non_null_value` just set field to null when accept retract messages.

The `collect` and `merge_map` make a best-effort attempt to handle retraction messages, but the results are not
guaranteed to be accurate. The following behaviors may occur when processing retraction messages:

1. It might fail to handle retraction messages if records are disordered. For example, the table uses `collect`, and the
   upstreams send `+I['A', 'B']` and `-U['A']` respectively. If the table receives `-U['A']` first, it can do nothing; then it receives
   `+I['A', 'B']`, the merge result will be `+I['A', 'B']` instead of `+I['B']`.

2. The retract message from one upstream will retract the result merged from multiple upstreams. For example, the table
   uses `merge_map`, and one upstream sends `+I[1->A]`, another upstream sends `+I[1->B]`, `-D[1->B]` later. The table will
   merge two insert values to `+I[1->B]` first, and then the `-D[1->B]` will retract the whole result, so the final result
   is an empty map instead of `+I[1->A]`
