docs/content/maintenance/dedicated-compaction.md, before:

---
title: "Dedicated Compaction"
weight: 4
type: docs
aliases:
- /maintenance/dedicated-compaction.html
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Dedicated Compaction

Paimon's snapshot management supports writing with multiple writers.

{{< hint info >}}
For S3-like object store, its `'RENAME'` does not have atomic semantic. We need to configure Hive metastore and
enable `'lock.enabled'` option for the catalog.
{{< /hint >}}

By default, Paimon supports concurrent writing to different partitions. A recommended mode is that streaming
job writes records to Paimon's latest partition; Simultaneously batch job (overwrite) writes records to the
historical partition.

{{< img src="/img/multiple-writers.png">}}

So far, everything works very well, but if you need multiple writers to write records to the same partition, it will 
be a bit more complicated. For example, you don't want to use `UNION ALL`, you have multiple
streaming jobs to write records to a `'partial-update'` table. Please refer to the `'Dedicated Compaction Job'` below.

## Dedicated Compaction Job

By default, Paimon writers will perform compaction as needed during writing records. This is sufficient for most use cases.

Compaction will mark some data files as "deleted" (not really deleted, see 
[expiring snapshots]({{< ref "maintenance/manage-snapshots#expiring-snapshots" >}}) for more info).
If multiple writers mark the same file, a conflict will occur when committing the changes. Paimon will automatically
resolve the conflict, but this may result in job restarts.

To avoid these downsides, users can also choose to skip compactions in writers, and run a dedicated job only for compaction. As compactions are performed only by the dedicated job, writers can continuously write records without pausing and no conflicts will ever occur.

To skip compactions in writers, set the following table property to `true`.

<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 20%">Option</th>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 5%">Required</th>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 5%">Default</th>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 10%">Type</th>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 60%">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><h5>write-only</h5></td>
      <td>No</td>
      <td style="word-wrap: break-word;">false</td>
      <td>Boolean</td>
      <td>If set to true, compactions and snapshot expiration will be skipped. This option is used along with dedicated compact jobs.</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

To run a dedicated job for compaction, follow these instructions.

{{< tabs "dedicated-compaction-job" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
CALL sys.compact(
  `table` => 'default.T', 
  partitions => 'p=0', 
  options => 'sink.parallelism=4',
  `where` => 'dt>10 and h<20'
);
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

Run the following command to submit a compaction job for the table.

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --database <database-name> \ 
    --table <table-name> \
    [--partition <partition-name>] \
    [--table_conf <table_conf>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]]
```

Example: compact table

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact \
    --warehouse s3:///path/to/warehouse \
    --database test_db \
    --table test_table \
    --partition dt=20221126,hh=08 \
    --partition dt=20221127,hh=09 \
    --table_conf sink.parallelism=10 \
    --catalog_conf s3.endpoint=https://****.com \
    --catalog_conf s3.access-key=***** \
    --catalog_conf s3.secret-key=*****
```

You can use `-D execution.runtime-mode=batch` or `-yD execution.runtime-mode=batch` (for the ON-YARN scenario) to control batch or streaming mode. If you submit a batch job, all
current table files will be compacted. If you submit a streaming job, the job will continuously monitor new changes
to the table and perform compactions as needed.

For more usage of the compact action, see

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact --help
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

{{< hint info >}}
Similarly, the default is synchronous compaction, which may cause checkpoint timeouts.
You can configure `table_conf` to use [Asynchronous Compaction]({{< ref "primary-key-table/compaction#asynchronous-compaction" >}}).
{{< /hint >}}

## Database Compaction Job

You can run the following command to submit a compaction job for multiple database.

{{< tabs "database-compaction-job" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
CALL sys.compact_database(
  including_databases => 'includingDatabases', 
  mode => 'mode', 
  including_tables => 'includingTables', 
  excluding_tables => 'excludingTables', 
  table_options => 'tableOptions'
)

-- example
CALL sys.compact_database(
  including_databases => 'db1|db2', 
  mode => 'combined', 
  including_tables => 'table_.*', 
  excluding_tables => 'ignore', 
  table_options => 'sink.parallelism=4'
)
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --including_databases <database-name|name-regular-expr> \ 
    [--including_tables <paimon-table-name|name-regular-expr>] \
    [--excluding_tables <paimon-table-name|name-regular-expr>] \
    [--mode <compact-mode>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]] \
    [--table_conf <paimon-table_conf> [--table_conf <paimon-table_conf> ...]]
```

* `--including_databases` is used to specify which database is to be compacted. In compact mode, you need to specify a database name, in compact_database mode, you could specify multiple database, regular expression is supported.
* `--including_tables` is used to specify which source tables are to be compacted, you must use '|' to separate multiple tables, the format is `databaseName.tableName`, regular expression is supported. For example, specifying "--including_tables db1.t1|db2.+" means to compact table 'db1.t1' and all tables in the db2 database.
* `--excluding_tables`  is used to specify which source tables are not to be compacted. The usage is same as "--including_tables". "--excluding_tables" has higher priority than "--including_tables" if you specified both.
* `--mode` is used to specify compaction mode. Possible values:
  * "divided" (the default mode if you haven't specified one): start a sink for each table, the compaction of the new table requires restarting the job.
  * "combined": start a single combined sink for all tables, the new table will be automatically compacted.
* `--catalog_conf` is the configuration for Paimon catalog. Each configuration should be specified in the format `key=value`. See [here]({{< ref "maintenance/configurations" >}}) for a complete list of catalog configurations.
* `--table_conf` is the configuration for compaction. Each configuration should be specified in the format `key=value`. Pivotal configuration is listed below:

| Key                               | Default | Type       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-----------------------------------|---------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| continuous.discovery-interval     | 10 s    | Duration   | The discovery interval of continuous reading.                                                                                                                                                               |
| sink.parallelism                  | (none)  | Integer    | Defines a custom parallelism for the sink. By default, if this option is not defined, the planner will derive the parallelism for each statement individually by also considering the global configuration. |

You can use `-D execution.runtime-mode=batch` to control batch or streaming mode. If you submit a batch job, all
current table files will be compacted. If you submit a streaming job, the job will continuously monitor new changes
to the table and perform compactions as needed.

{{< hint info >}}

If you only want to submit the compaction job and don't want to wait until the job is done, you should submit in [detached mode](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/deployment/cli/#submitting-a-job).

{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint info >}}

You can set `--mode combined` to enable compacting newly added tables without restarting job.

{{< /hint >}}

Example1: compact database

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse s3:///path/to/warehouse \
    --including_databases test_db \
    --catalog_conf s3.endpoint=https://****.com \
    --catalog_conf s3.access-key=***** \
    --catalog_conf s3.secret-key=*****
```

Example2: compact database in combined mode

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse s3:///path/to/warehouse \
    --including_databases test_db \
    --mode combined \
    --catalog_conf s3.endpoint=https://****.com \
    --catalog_conf s3.access-key=***** \
    --catalog_conf s3.secret-key=***** \
    --table_conf continuous.discovery-interval=*****
```

For more usage of the compact_database action, see

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database --help
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Sort Compact

If your table is configured with [dynamic bucket primary key table]({{< ref "primary-key-table/data-distribution#dynamic-bucket" >}})
or [append table]({{< ref "append-table/overview" >}}) ,
you can trigger a compact with specified column sort to speed up queries.

{{< tabs "sort-compaction-job" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
-- sort compact table
CALL sys.compact(`table` => 'default.T', order_strategy => 'zorder', order_by => 'a,b')
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

```bash  
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    -D execution.runtime-mode=batch \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --database <database-name> \ 
    --table <table-name> \
    --order_strategy <orderType> \
    --order_by <col1,col2,...> \
    [--partition <partition-name>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]] \
    [--table_conf <paimon-table-dynamic-conf> [--table_conf <paimon-table-dynamic-conf>] ...]
```
There are two new configuration in `Sort Compact`
{{< generated/sort-compact >}}

The sort parallelism is the same as the sink parallelism, you can dynamically specify it by add conf `--table_conf sink.parallelism=<value>`.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Historical Partition Compact

You can run the following command to submit a compaction job for partition which has not received any new data for
a period of time. Small files in those partitions will be full compacted.

{{< hint info >}}

This feature now is only used in batch mode.

{{< /hint >}}

### For Table

This is for one table.
{{< tabs "history-partition-compaction-job for table" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
-- history partition compact table
CALL sys.compact(`table` => 'default.T', 'partition_idle_time' => '1 d')
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

```bash  
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    -D execution.runtime-mode=batch \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --database <database-name> \ 
    --table <table-name> \
    --partition_idle_time <partition-idle-time> \ 
    [--partition <partition-name>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]] \
    [--table_conf <paimon-table-dynamic-conf> [--table_conf <paimon-table-dynamic-conf>] ...]
```

There are one new configuration in `Historical Partition Compact`

* `--partition_idle_time`: this is used to do a full compaction for partition which had not received any new data for
  'partition_idle_time'. And only these partitions will be compacted.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### For Databases

This is for multiple tables in different databases.
{{< tabs "history-partition-compaction-job for databases" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
-- history partition compact table
CALL sys.compact_database(
  including_databases => 'includingDatabases', 
  mode => 'mode', 
  including_tables => 'includingTables',
  excluding_tables => 'excludingTables',
  table_options => 'tableOptions',
  partition_idle_time => 'partition_idle_time'
);
```

Example: compact historical partitions for tables in database

```sql
-- history partition compact table
CALL sys.compact_database(
  includingDatabases => 'test_db', 
  mode => 'combined', 
  partition_idle_time => '1 d'
);
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

```bash  
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    -D execution.runtime-mode=batch \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --including_databases <database-name|name-regular-expr> \
    --partition_idle_time <partition-idle-time> \ 
    [--including_tables <paimon-table-name|name-regular-expr>] \
    [--excluding_tables <paimon-table-name|name-regular-expr>] \
    [--mode <compact-mode>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]] \
    [--table_conf <paimon-table_conf> [--table_conf <paimon-table_conf> ...]]
```

Example: compact historical partitions for tables in database

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse s3:///path/to/warehouse \
    --including_databases test_db \
    --partition_idle_time 1d \
    --catalog_conf s3.endpoint=https://****.com \
    --catalog_conf s3.access-key=***** \
    --catalog_conf s3.secret-key=*****
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Commit message:

[flink] Support minor compact strategy for dedicated compaction action. (#4589)

docs/content/maintenance/dedicated-compaction.md, after:

---
title: "Dedicated Compaction"
weight: 4
type: docs
aliases:
- /maintenance/dedicated-compaction.html
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Dedicated Compaction

Paimon's snapshot management supports writing with multiple writers.

{{< hint info >}}
For S3-like object store, its `'RENAME'` does not have atomic semantic. We need to configure Hive metastore and
enable `'lock.enabled'` option for the catalog.
{{< /hint >}}

By default, Paimon supports concurrent writing to different partitions. A recommended mode is that streaming
job writes records to Paimon's latest partition; Simultaneously batch job (overwrite) writes records to the
historical partition.

{{< img src="/img/multiple-writers.png">}}

So far, everything works very well, but if you need multiple writers to write records to the same partition, it will 
be a bit more complicated. For example, you don't want to use `UNION ALL`, you have multiple
streaming jobs to write records to a `'partial-update'` table. Please refer to the `'Dedicated Compaction Job'` below.

## Dedicated Compaction Job

By default, Paimon writers will perform compaction as needed during writing records. This is sufficient for most use cases.

Compaction will mark some data files as "deleted" (not really deleted, see 
[expiring snapshots]({{< ref "maintenance/manage-snapshots#expiring-snapshots" >}}) for more info).
If multiple writers mark the same file, a conflict will occur when committing the changes. Paimon will automatically
resolve the conflict, but this may result in job restarts.

To avoid these downsides, users can also choose to skip compactions in writers, and run a dedicated job only for compaction. As compactions are performed only by the dedicated job, writers can continuously write records without pausing and no conflicts will ever occur.

To skip compactions in writers, set the following table property to `true`.

<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 20%">Option</th>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 5%">Required</th>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 5%">Default</th>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 10%">Type</th>
      <th class="text-left" style="width: 60%">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><h5>write-only</h5></td>
      <td>No</td>
      <td style="word-wrap: break-word;">false</td>
      <td>Boolean</td>
      <td>If set to true, compactions and snapshot expiration will be skipped. This option is used along with dedicated compact jobs.</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

To run a dedicated job for compaction, follow these instructions.

{{< tabs "dedicated-compaction-job" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
CALL sys.compact(
  `table` => 'default.T', 
  partitions => 'p=0', 
  options => 'sink.parallelism=4',
  `where` => 'dt>10 and h<20'
);
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

Run the following command to submit a compaction job for the table.

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --database <database-name> \ 
    --table <table-name> \
    [--partition <partition-name>] \
    [--compact_strategy <minor / full>] \
    [--table_conf <table_conf>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]]
```

Example: compact table

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact \
    --warehouse s3:///path/to/warehouse \
    --database test_db \
    --table test_table \
    --partition dt=20221126,hh=08 \
    --partition dt=20221127,hh=09 \
    --table_conf sink.parallelism=10 \
    --compact_strategy minor \
    --catalog_conf s3.endpoint=https://****.com \
    --catalog_conf s3.access-key=***** \
    --catalog_conf s3.secret-key=*****
```
* `--compact_strategy` Determines how to pick files to be merged, the default is determined by the runtime execution mode, streaming-mode use `minor` strategy and batch-mode use `full` strategy.
  * `full` : Only supports batch mode. All files will be selected for merging.
  * `minor` : Pick the set of files that need to be merged based on specified conditions.

You can use `-D execution.runtime-mode=batch` or `-yD execution.runtime-mode=batch` (for the ON-YARN scenario) to control batch or streaming mode. If you submit a batch job, all
current table files will be compacted. If you submit a streaming job, the job will continuously monitor new changes
to the table and perform compactions as needed.

For more usage of the compact action, see

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact --help
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

{{< hint info >}}
Similarly, the default is synchronous compaction, which may cause checkpoint timeouts.
You can configure `table_conf` to use [Asynchronous Compaction]({{< ref "primary-key-table/compaction#asynchronous-compaction" >}}).
{{< /hint >}}

## Database Compaction Job

You can run the following command to submit a compaction job for multiple database.

{{< tabs "database-compaction-job" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
CALL sys.compact_database(
  including_databases => 'includingDatabases', 
  mode => 'mode', 
  including_tables => 'includingTables', 
  excluding_tables => 'excludingTables', 
  table_options => 'tableOptions'
)

-- example
CALL sys.compact_database(
  including_databases => 'db1|db2', 
  mode => 'combined', 
  including_tables => 'table_.*', 
  excluding_tables => 'ignore', 
  table_options => 'sink.parallelism=4'
)
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --including_databases <database-name|name-regular-expr> \ 
    [--including_tables <paimon-table-name|name-regular-expr>] \
    [--excluding_tables <paimon-table-name|name-regular-expr>] \
    [--mode <compact-mode>] \
    [--compact_strategy <minor / full>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]] \
    [--table_conf <paimon-table_conf> [--table_conf <paimon-table_conf> ...]]
```

* `--including_databases` is used to specify which database is to be compacted. In compact mode, you need to specify a database name, in compact_database mode, you could specify multiple database, regular expression is supported.
* `--including_tables` is used to specify which source tables are to be compacted, you must use '|' to separate multiple tables, the format is `databaseName.tableName`, regular expression is supported. For example, specifying "--including_tables db1.t1|db2.+" means to compact table 'db1.t1' and all tables in the db2 database.
* `--excluding_tables`  is used to specify which source tables are not to be compacted. The usage is same as "--including_tables". "--excluding_tables" has higher priority than "--including_tables" if you specified both.
* `--mode` is used to specify compaction mode. Possible values:
  * "divided" (the default mode if you haven't specified one): start a sink for each table, the compaction of the new table requires restarting the job.
  * "combined": start a single combined sink for all tables, the new table will be automatically compacted.
* `--catalog_conf` is the configuration for Paimon catalog. Each configuration should be specified in the format `key=value`. See [here]({{< ref "maintenance/configurations" >}}) for a complete list of catalog configurations.
* `--table_conf` is the configuration for compaction. Each configuration should be specified in the format `key=value`. Pivotal configuration is listed below:

| Key                               | Default | Type       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-----------------------------------|---------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| continuous.discovery-interval     | 10 s    | Duration   | The discovery interval of continuous reading.                                                                                                                                                               |
| sink.parallelism                  | (none)  | Integer    | Defines a custom parallelism for the sink. By default, if this option is not defined, the planner will derive the parallelism for each statement individually by also considering the global configuration. |

You can use `-D execution.runtime-mode=batch` to control batch or streaming mode. If you submit a batch job, all
current table files will be compacted. If you submit a streaming job, the job will continuously monitor new changes
to the table and perform compactions as needed.

{{< hint info >}}

If you only want to submit the compaction job and don't want to wait until the job is done, you should submit in [detached mode](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/deployment/cli/#submitting-a-job).

{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint info >}}

You can set `--mode combined` to enable compacting newly added tables without restarting job.

{{< /hint >}}

Example1: compact database

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse s3:///path/to/warehouse \
    --including_databases test_db \
    --catalog_conf s3.endpoint=https://****.com \
    --catalog_conf s3.access-key=***** \
    --catalog_conf s3.secret-key=*****
```

Example2: compact database in combined mode

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse s3:///path/to/warehouse \
    --including_databases test_db \
    --mode combined \
    --catalog_conf s3.endpoint=https://****.com \
    --catalog_conf s3.access-key=***** \
    --catalog_conf s3.secret-key=***** \
    --table_conf continuous.discovery-interval=*****
```

For more usage of the compact_database action, see

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database --help
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Sort Compact

If your table is configured with [dynamic bucket primary key table]({{< ref "primary-key-table/data-distribution#dynamic-bucket" >}})
or [append table]({{< ref "append-table/overview" >}}) ,
you can trigger a compact with specified column sort to speed up queries.

{{< tabs "sort-compaction-job" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
-- sort compact table
CALL sys.compact(`table` => 'default.T', order_strategy => 'zorder', order_by => 'a,b')
```
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

```bash  
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    -D execution.runtime-mode=batch \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --database <database-name> \ 
    --table <table-name> \
    --order_strategy <orderType> \
    --order_by <col1,col2,...> \
    [--partition <partition-name>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]] \
    [--table_conf <paimon-table-dynamic-conf> [--table_conf <paimon-table-dynamic-conf>] ...]
```
There are two new configuration in `Sort Compact`
{{< generated/sort-compact >}}

The sort parallelism is the same as the sink parallelism, you can dynamically specify it by add conf `--table_conf sink.parallelism=<value>`.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Historical Partition Compact

You can run the following command to submit a compaction job for partition which has not received any new data for
a period of time. Small files in those partitions will be full compacted.

{{< hint info >}}

This feature now is only used in batch mode.

{{< /hint >}}

### For Table

This is for one table.
{{< tabs "history-partition-compaction-job for table" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
-- history partition compact table
CALL sys.compact(`table` => 'default.T', 'partition_idle_time' => '1 d')
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

```bash  
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    -D execution.runtime-mode=batch \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --database <database-name> \ 
    --table <table-name> \
    --partition_idle_time <partition-idle-time> \ 
    [--partition <partition-name>] \
    [--compact_strategy <minor / full>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]] \
    [--table_conf <paimon-table-dynamic-conf> [--table_conf <paimon-table-dynamic-conf>] ...]
```

There are one new configuration in `Historical Partition Compact`

* `--partition_idle_time`: this is used to do a full compaction for partition which had not received any new data for
  'partition_idle_time'. And only these partitions will be compacted.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

### For Databases

This is for multiple tables in different databases.
{{< tabs "history-partition-compaction-job for databases" >}}

{{< tab "Flink SQL" >}}

Run the following sql:

```sql
-- history partition compact table
CALL sys.compact_database(
  including_databases => 'includingDatabases', 
  mode => 'mode', 
  including_tables => 'includingTables',
  excluding_tables => 'excludingTables',
  table_options => 'tableOptions',
  partition_idle_time => 'partition_idle_time'
);
```

Example: compact historical partitions for tables in database

```sql
-- history partition compact table
CALL sys.compact_database(
  includingDatabases => 'test_db', 
  mode => 'combined', 
  partition_idle_time => '1 d'
);
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Flink Action Jar" >}}

```bash  
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    -D execution.runtime-mode=batch \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse <warehouse-path> \
    --including_databases <database-name|name-regular-expr> \
    --partition_idle_time <partition-idle-time> \ 
    [--including_tables <paimon-table-name|name-regular-expr>] \
    [--excluding_tables <paimon-table-name|name-regular-expr>] \
    [--mode <compact-mode>] \
    [--compact_strategy <minor / full>] \
    [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> [--catalog_conf <paimon-catalog-conf> ...]] \
    [--table_conf <paimon-table_conf> [--table_conf <paimon-table_conf> ...]]
```

Example: compact historical partitions for tables in database

```bash
<FLINK_HOME>/bin/flink run \
    /path/to/paimon-flink-action-{{< version >}}.jar \
    compact_database \
    --warehouse s3:///path/to/warehouse \
    --including_databases test_db \
    --partition_idle_time 1d \
    --catalog_conf s3.endpoint=https://****.com \
    --catalog_conf s3.access-key=***** \
    --catalog_conf s3.secret-key=*****
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}
